ABSTRACT

Measures of Fault Tolerance in Distributed Simulated 
Annealing

In this paper, we examine the different measures of 
Fault Tolerance in a Distributed Simulated Annealing 
process. Optimization by Simulated Annealing on a 
distributed system is prone to various sources of 
failure. We analyse simulated annealing algorithm, 
its architecture in distributed platform and 
potential sources of failures. We examine the 
behaviour of tolerant distributed system for 
optimization task. We present possible methods to 
overcome the failures and achieve fault tolerance for 
the distributed simulated annealing process. We also 
examine the implementation of Simulated Annealing in 
MapReduce system and possible ways to prevent 
failures in reaching the global optima. This paper 
will be beneficial to those who are interested in 
implementing a large scale distributed simulated 
annealing optimization problem of industrial or 
academic interest. We recommend hybrid tolerance 
technique to optimize the trade-off between 
efficiency and availability.

